Allie Clifford
Assignment 2: Chat Application
Due: 11:59pm, February 21st

In this assignment, I built a chat application based on the client-server 
model. The server uses TCP-managed sockets, persistent connections, and 
is able to handle multiple clients at the same time. This is achieved 
using the select() system call rather than threads, per the assignment 
specification. Also per the assignment specification, all code was to
be submitted as a single file, rather than as modules. The full 
assignment specifications are viewable in COMP112_A2_Spring2018.pdf.  

This application is able to handle the arrival and departure of clients 
(both graceful exit as well as uninformed). One edit was made to the 
assignment not included in the pdf: clients who ungracefully exit are
not required to be maintained in the client records (no longer 
treating ungraceful exit as if client temporarily disconnected). A max
of 20 connections at one time is set.  

Clients connect to the server via a TCP connection, and can make the
following requests to the server:
1. A HELLO message (clients tell the server that they are here).
a. This is used by new clients as well as those that were temporarily 
disconnected.
b. When the server receives a HELLO message, it will register the 
client by keeping track of its ClientID and send back a HELLO_ACK 
message. Additionally it will also send a CLIENT_LIST message 
which contains the information about existing clients.
c. If a ClientID already exists, the server responds with an
ERROR(CLIENT_ALREADY_PRESENT) message and closes the TCP connection.
2. LIST_REQUEST message
a. A client can also explicitly request the list of connected clients 
by sending a LIST_REQUEST message. The server will respond through 
the CLIENT_LIST message.
3. A CHAT message (from one client to the other).
a. Clients can send messages to other clients by sending a CHAT 
message to the server.
b. The server will forward this message to the intended recipient 
client in another CHAT message.
c. If the recipient client doesn’t exist, the server discards the 
message and sends an ERROR(CANNOT_DELIVER) message, which has the 
Message-ID appropriately set, back to the sender.
4. An EXIT message:
a. Signals that the client is leaving. In this case the server 
removes the client from its record.

Requests are made to the server using a header message to indicate
message type, message source, message destination, length, message
ID, and, in a separate message if appropriate, data. If there is no
data following the header message, then length is 0. In total, there are
8 message types to support this functionality:
1 - HELLO
2 - HELLO_ACK
3 - LIST_REQUEST
4 - CLIENT_LIST
5 - CHAT
6 - EXIT
7 - ERROR(CLIENT_ALREADY_PRESENT)
8 - ERROR(CANNOT_DELIVER) 
Header messages are serialized/deserialized in the following manner:
They are stored as packed header structs, and when transmitted are cast 
to and from (char *) in calls to read() and write(). 

Client records are stored in two data structures: a hashtable and an array
of socket file descriptors and client ID pairs. The array uses 
socket file descriptors as the index key, and holds pointers to 
client_node structs. The hashtable holds the same records, however
in this structire the client ID is the key, and the value is a pointer to 
a client_node struct. These two structures are used to resolve internal
routing: other clients are not aware of socket file descriptor values,
and select() is not aware of client IDs. When a client makes a chat
request to the server, it provides a client ID as the message recipient.
Therefore fast lookup of clients using both their socket file 
descriptor, and their client ID, requires these two redundant structures. 

Each client record has the following: 
1. a client ID, i.e. the name a user specifies when connecting to 
the server.
2. a socketfd, assigned by select()
3. a number to indicate the length of their message queue
3. a pointer to a header struct, used if client indicated they will
send a chat message following a header message
4. a pointer to a message struct, where each client's message queue is
stored within their individual client record

Each message struct has the following:
1. a pointer to a header struct, which stores all of the info necessary
for appropriate routing (and return, if necessary).
2. an array of 400 bytes to hold the message data
3. a flag to indicate if data should not be sent, in the case of when
a message must be returned to sender
4. a pointer to a message struct, i.e. next, to hold links within the
message queue.    

Because the connection state of each client must be monitored for 
voluntary and involuntary closing of the socket, a state variable is
passed through all functions that are called when processing a client
connection, either for new activity or for sending messages from other
clients. Error handling throughout is included to handle undefined 
behavior from clients, which, in most cases unless otherwise specified,
results in the closing of the connection. Because the server is not meant
to be closed (per instructor) there is no memory management included. 
This functionality will be added at a later time.

To compile this server, we were instructed to link against the -lnsl 
library.
